<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title>Readium CSS Implementers’ doc</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>

<body xml:lang="en">
  <section id="defaults" class="level1">
    <h1>Defaults</h1>

    <p>[Implementers’ doc] [Authors’ info]</p>

    <p>Defaults is currently made of 5 stylesheets:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>1 base stylesheet for all ebooks;</li>

      <li>1 default reading mode stylesheet for all ebooks (day mode);</li>

      <li>1 default stylesheet for unstyled ebooks;</li>

      <li>1 stylesheet to deal with the OS’ a11y modes.</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Note:</strong> The default stylesheet should not be appended if there are author styles in the EPUB file.</p>

    <section id="base" class="level2">
      <h2 id="sigil_toc_id_56">Base</h2>

      <p>The base stylesheet deals with:</p>

      <ol>
        <li>default typography;</li>

        <li>default font-family depending on the language.</li>
      </ol>

      <p>Those values are obviously customizable.</p>

      <p>It should be appended before any author’s stylesheet.</p>

      <section id="variables-you-can-set" class="level3">
        <h3 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Variables you can set</h3>

        <section id="default-font-stacks" class="level4">
          <h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Default font-stacks</h4>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__oldStyleTf</code></pre>

          <p>An old style serif font-stack relying on pre-installed fonts.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>"Iowan Old Style", Sitka, "Sitka Text", Palatino, "Book Antiqua", "URW Palladio L", P052, serif</code>.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__modernTf</code></pre>

          <p>A modern serif font-stack relying on pre-installed fonts.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>Athelas, Constantia, Charter, "Bitstream Charter", Cambria, "Georgia Pro", Georgia, serif</code>.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__sansTf</code></pre>

          <p>A neutral sans-serif font-stack relying on pre-installed fonts.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>-ui-sans-serif, -apple-system, system-ui, BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI Variable", "Segoe UI", Inter, Roboto, "Helvetica Neue", "Arial Nova", "Liberation Sans", Arial, sans-serif</code>.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__humanistTf </code></pre>

          <p>A humanist sans-serif font-stack relying on pre-installed fonts.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>Seravek, Calibri, "Gill Sans Nova", Roboto, Ubuntu, "DejaVu Sans", source-sans-pro, sans-serif</code>.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__monospaceTf </code></pre>

          <p>A monospace font-stack relying on pre-installed fonts.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>ui-monospace, "Andale Mono", "Cascadia Code", "Source Code Pro", Menlo, Consolas, "DejaVu Sans Mono", monospace</code>.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="default-font-stacks-for-japanese-publications" class="level4">
          <h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Default font-stacks for Japanese publications</h4>

          <p>We’ve been trying to follow the recommendations of the <a href="http://ebpaj.jp/counsel/guide">EBPAJ File Creation Guide</a> and provide specific font-stacks that can handle both horizontal and vertical writing.</p>

          <p>Those font-stacks have been modeled after fonts the templates of this guide use as defaults, and extend support to the largest amount of platforms possible.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__serif-ja</code></pre>

          <p>A Mincho font-stack whose fonts with proportional latin characters are prioritized for horizontal writing.</p>

          <p>Fonts are not necessarily pre-installed, which is the reason why this font-stack is extensive.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>"Hiragino Mincho ProN", "Hiragino Mincho Pro", "YuMincho", "BIZ UDPMincho", "Yu Mincho", "ＭＳ Ｐ明朝", "MS PMincho", serif</code>.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__sans-serif-ja</code></pre>

          <p>A Gothic font-stack whose fonts with proportional latin characters are prioritized for horizontal writing.</p>

          <p>Fonts are not necessarily pre-installed, which is the reason why this font-stack is extensive.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>"Hiragino Sans", "Hiragino Kaku Gothic ProN", "Hiragino Kaku Gothic Pro", "ヒラギノ角ゴ W3", "YuGothic", "Yu Gothic Medium", "BIZ UDPGothic", "Yu Gothic", "ＭＳ Ｐゴシック", "MS PGothic", sans-serif</code>.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__serif-ja-v</code></pre>

          <p>A Mincho font-stack whose fonts with fixed-width latin characters are prioritized for vertical writing.</p>

          <p>Fonts are not necessarily pre-installed, which is the reason why this font-stack is extensive.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>"Hiragino Mincho ProN", "Hiragino Mincho Pro", "YuMincho", "BIZ UDMincho", "Yu Mincho", "ＭＳ明朝", "MS Mincho", serif</code>.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__sans-serif-ja-v</code></pre>

          <p>A Gothic font-stack whose fonts with fixed-width latin characters are prioritized for vertical writing.</p>

          <p>Fonts are not necessarily pre-installed, which is the reason why this font-stack is extensive.</p>

          <p>Default is <code>"Hiragino Sans", "Hiragino Kaku Gothic ProN", "Hiragino Kaku Gothic Pro", "ヒラギノ角ゴ W3", "YuGothic", "Yu Gothic Medium", "BIZ UDGothic", "Yu Gothic", "ＭＳゴシック", "MS Gothic", sans-serif</code>.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="absolute-defaults-for-all-ebooks" class="level4">
          <h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Absolute defaults for all ebooks</h4>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__baseFontFamily</code></pre>

          <p>The default typeface for body copy in case the ebook doesn’t have one declared.</p>

          <p>Please note some languages have a specific font-stack (japanese, chinese, hindi, etc.)</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__baseLineHeight</code></pre>

          <p>The default line-height for body copy in case the ebook doesn’t have one declared.</p>

		  <hr/>

		  <pre><code>--RS__lineHeightCompensation</code></pre>

          <p>The compensation factor (integer) the dynamic leading pseudo-algorithm must apply, if used. Default is <code>1</code> i.e. no compensation.</p>

		  <p>This variable is redefined by default, in languages and scripts which need compensation due to the characteristics of their average fonts’ metrics.</p>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>

    <section id="day-mode" class="level2">
      <h2 id="sigil_toc_id_57">Day Mode</h2>

      <p>The <code>ReadiumCSS-day_mode.css</code> stylesheet serves as a default and handles <code>background-color</code> and <code>color</code> for <code>:root</code> and <code>::selection</code>.</p>

      <section id="variables-you-can-set-1" class="level3">
        <h3 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Variables you can set</h3>

		<hr/>

        <pre><code>--RS__backgroundColor</code></pre>

        <p>The <code>background-color</code> for the entire viewport.</p>

		<hr/>

        <pre><code>--RS__textColor</code></pre>

        <p>The <code>color</code> for body copy.</p>

		<hr/>

        <pre><code>--RS__selectionBackgroundColor</code></pre>

        <p>The <code>background-color</code> for selected text.</p>

        <p>It is worth noting it can be customized for each reading mode.</p>

		<hr/>

        <pre><code>--RS__selectionTextColor</code></pre>

        <p>The <code>color</code> for selected text.</p>

        <p>It is worth noting it can be customized for each reading mode.</p>
      </section>
    </section>

    <section id="default" class="level2">
      <h2 id="sigil_toc_id_58">Default</h2>

      <p>The default stylesheet was designed for unstyled ebooks. It is based on HTML5 Suggested Rendering and can be customized.</p>

      <p>Although it must not be used for styled ebooks, it should not impact the author’s styles if it is added before its stylesheet(s).</p>

      <p>You can customize:</p>

      <ul>
        <li>the typeface for headings (body is in <code>base.css</code>);</li>

        <li>the typeface for code;</li>

        <li>the font-size for body copy;</li>

        <li>the base line-height for all elements;</li>

        <li>the vertical margins for block elements;</li>

        <li>the vertical margins for paragraphs;</li>

        <li>the text-indent for paragraphs;</li>

        <li>the typescale;</li>

        <li>the color for links (including visited);</li>

        <li>a primary accent color (unused by default);</li>

        <li>a secondary accent color (unused by default).</li>
      </ul>

      <p>It makes use of a typescale so that you can change it dynamically (depending on page size, font size, etc.) so that headings and other elements can be adjusted.</p>

      <section id="variables-you-can-set-2" class="level3">
        <h3 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Variables you can set</h3>

        <section id="typefaces" class="level4">
          <h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Typefaces</h4>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__compFontFamily</code></pre>

          <p>The typeface for headings. The value can be another variable e.g. <code>var(-RS__humanistTf)</code>.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__codeFontFamily</code></pre>

          <p>The typeface for code snippets. The value can be another variable e.g. <code>var(-RS__monospaceTf)</code>.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="typography" class="level4">
          <h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Typography</h4>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__typeScale</code></pre>

          <p>The scale to be used for computing all elements’ <code>font-size</code>. Since those font sizes are computed dynamically, you can set a smaller type scale when the user sets one of the largest font sizes.</p>

          <p>Possible values: <code>1</code> | <code>1.067</code> | <code>1.125</code> | <code>1.2</code> (suggested default) | <code>1.25</code> | <code>1.333</code> | <code>1.414</code> | <code>1.5</code> | <code>1.618</code></p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__baseFontSize</code></pre>

          <p>The default <code>font-size</code> for body copy. It will serve as a reference font all related computations.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__baseLineHeight</code></pre>

          <p>The default <code>line-height</code> for all elements.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="vertical-rhythm" class="level4">
          <h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Vertical rhythm</h4>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__flowSpacing</code></pre>

          <p>The default vertical margins for HTML5 flow content e.g. <code>pre</code>, <code>figure</code>, <code>blockquote</code>, etc.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__paraSpacing</code></pre>

          <p>The default vertical margins for paragraphs.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__paraIndent</code></pre>

          <p>The default <code>text-indent</code> for paragraphs.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="hyperlinks" class="level4">
          <h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Hyperlinks</h4>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__linkColor</code></pre>

          <p>The default <code>color</code> for hyperlinks.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__visitedColor</code></pre>

          <p>The default <code>color</code> for visited hyperlinks.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="accentuation-colors" class="level4">
          <h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Accentuation colors</h4>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__primaryColor</code></pre>

          <p>An optional primary accentuation <code>color</code> you could use for headings or any other element of your choice.</p>

		  <hr/>

          <pre><code>--RS__secondaryColor</code></pre>

          <p>An optional secondary accentuation <code>color</code> you could use for any element of your choice.</p>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>

    <section id="os-a11y-modes" class="level2">
      <h2 id="sigil_toc_id_134">OS’ a11y modes</h2>
        
      <p>This stylesheet is intended to deal with a11y settings users can set at the OS level, whenever possible:</p>

      <ul>
        <li>high-contrast mode;</li>

        <li>inverted colors;</li>

        <li>monochrome;</li>

        <li>reduced motion.</li>
      </ul>

      <p>For <code>monochrome</code>, we’ll have to adjust reading modes (night, sepia, etc.) in their specific stylesheet; we’ll see if we can at least manage some more global settings in there.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
</body>
</html>