<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title>Readium CSS Implementers’ doc</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>

<body xml:lang="en">
  <section id="custom-fonts" class="level1">
    <h1>Using custom fonts with Readium CSS</h1>

    <p>[Implementers’ doc]</p>

    <p>Now that we have seen libre and variable fonts, let's see how to use custom fonts with Readium CSS.</p>

    <p>Readium CSS cannot provide <code>@font-face</code> rules, as this would require apps to embed fonts in every EPUB file they render, at a specific path relative to the current resource displayed. This does not scale,  would bloat file sizes, and would not resolve the issue of previewing these fonts in the app itself.</p>

    <section id="declaring-fonts" class="level2">
      <h2 id="sigil_toc_id_221">Declaring fonts</h2>

      <p>Apps can declare custom fonts by injecting <code>@font-face</code> rules into the content’s <code>head</code> element. It is critical that these rules are injected in each content resource, as the browser needs to resolve the <code>font-family</code> values used in the Readium CSS stylesheet.</p>

      <p>To declare a static font:</p>

      <pre><code>@font-face {  
  font-family: "MyCustomFont";
  src: url("https://example.org/path/to/font.woff2") format("woff2");
  font-weight: normal;
  font-style: normal;
}
@font-face {
  font-family: "MyCustomFont";
  src: url("https://example.org/path/to/font-italic.woff2") format("woff2");
  font-weight: normal;
  font-style: italic;
}

/* Bold and BoldItalic */</code></pre>

      <p>To declare a variable font:</p>

      <pre><code>@font-face {
  font-family: "MyCustomVariableFont";
  src: url("https://example.org/path/to/variable-font.woff2") format("woff2");
  font-weight: 100 900;
  font-stretch: 50% 200%;
}</code></pre>

      <p>Your <code>src</code> url must be the exact path to the font file. The path type depends on how you serve the fonts:</p>

      <ul>
        <li><strong>Relative paths</strong> (e.g., <code>url("../fonts/font.woff2")</code>) when fonts are bundled within the package you serve</li>
        <li><strong>Full absolute URLs</strong> (e.g., <code>url("https://example.org/path/to/font.woff2")</code>) when fonts are hosted externally</li>
      </ul>

      <p>This is important because the CSS may be used in different contexts such as iframes where incorrect path resolution will fail to load the font.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="applying-a-custom-font" class="level2">
      <h2 id="sigil_toc_id_222">Applying a custom font</h2>

      <p>Once you have declared a custom font, you can apply it to elements in your EPUB content by using the <code>--USER__fontFamily</code> property of Readium CSS.</p>

      <pre><code>document.documentElement.style.setProperty("--USER__fontFamily", "MyCustomFont, sans-serif");</code></pre>

      <p>You can also leverage variable fonts by using their dedicated properties:</p>

      <ul>
        <li><code>--USER__fontWeight</code></li>
        <li><code>--USER__fontWidth</code></li>
      </ul>

	  <p>Then:</p>

      <pre><code>document.documentElement.style.setProperty("--USER__fontWeight", "575");
document.documentElement.style.setProperty("--USER__fontWidth", "125%");</code></pre>
    </section>
  </section>
</body>
</html>